# Webtex Dependencies

This is the packages page for Webtex, which outlines some of the modules used by the editor.

## Lexical
Undoubtedly, the most important component to Webtex is the Lexical
editor. Lexical's modularity and low-level architecture provides a
clean environment for developing plugins. Many of the editor's
existing plugins can be found on Lexical's Github page. Plugins
developed specifically for Webtex can be found in the Webtex monorepo.

## Dexie
For data persistence, Webtex uses the IndexedDB API through the Dexie
library. In contrast to local storage, IndexedDB is asynchronous and
non-render-blocking, allowing Webtex to focus on text editing.

## Redux
An architectural challenge to applications like Webtex is deciding on
a state management tool. As a whole, Webtex has three different
components at play, each with their own separate states.

The Lexical editor has its own underlying state model, independent of
the DOM. IndexedDB has its own. And the front-end application (what's
shown to the user) has its own state as well. Moreover, within each of
these components, there are smaller, micro-states. The editor's
toolbar, the notes panel, undo-redo history&mdash;all of these are
substates independent of one another.

The complexity is greatly reduced with a functional approach. Instead
of attempting to track each state by a single, monolithic handler, we
break it down into smaller, independent modules. Redux makes this
approach easy. Webtex maintains a single Redux slice that only cares
about: (1) what's created, (2) what's read, (3) what's updated, and
(4) what's deleted. Everything else&mdash;what's rendered on the
editor, what's displayed on the toolbar, what's highlighted,
etc.&mdash;is handled by React's useContext, useState, and useEffect
hooks.

## FPlot
Webtex renders function plots with FPlot, a React component that renders function plots. 


## Parsers
A significant challenge to rendering function plots within a text
editor, rich or plain, is parsing user input. Regular expressions are
insufficient, because mathematical notation is anything but
context-free.

To solve this problem, Webtex uses several custom parsers. First, a
recursive descent parser for managing side effects and directing
parser flow. Second, parser combinators and packrat parsers for
performing the actual substantive parsing. And third, an Earley parser
for handling extreme edge cases.

For the vast majority of user inputs, the parser combinators and
packrat parsers get the job done. The trickier edge cases are implicit
multiplication, right-recursive grammars, and ambiguous notations like
${\sin^{-1}x}$ versus ${x^{-1}.}$